METRICS

May 11 (9 days after May release)
 - A/B/C/E have 53/134/146/86 downloads
 - subreddit has 94 readers
 - a couple donators (3 back from march release)

MOJANG BUGS

beacon at spawn sometimes not render, villager in hub sometimes not render, absorbtion/HB hearts sometimes not show (client reset 4ixes)
go thru gateway on horse 91628
elytra no work after tp https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-92916

TO TEST

uhc balance; made lots of changes to food/heals/start items/spawners
test the potion buffs (speed is good, strength good, haste didn't notice much, health boost good when not glitch display)

PUBLISHED MAPS

Mar2016A - seed 231, single, normal
xx Mar2016B - seed 129, multi, normal
xx Mar2016C - seed  17, multi, normal   (tougher?)
Mar2016D - seed  20, single, normal
Mar2016E - seed 357, multi, normal
Apr2016A - seed ice-spikes, single, normal   // LNG request

May2016A - seed mesa2, multi    // CT request
May2016B - seed 684, single
May2016C - seed 702, single

May2016E - seed 611, multi-EZ

May2016H - seed tj3, single HARD (tj beta)
May2016J - seed tj3, single HARD (fairy beta)
May2016X - seed tj3, single HARD

CHECKLIST (automate?)
make world checklist:
    tweak customization knobs
	set up world name
	run it
	curation advice: num dungeons near spawn and cave length to reach them; overall beacon layout
publish checklist: 
	let spawn settle
	fix icon
	do any manual customization
	put player in starting box
	run 
		/gamemode 0 
		/defaultgamemode 0 
		/effect @p clear
		/clear
	remove stats/playerdata
	change folder name map date/name
	make a copy
	go in and check spawn platform, caves/dungeons/pillars, worst flat/peak, orchid, purple underground, map_0

TEST
OK? slightly fewer reds, makes each better and may force more exploration
OK? still maybe too much diamonds or prot at end, lessened diamonds
OK? anti-tunneling under peaks too? I did it, but it doesn't dissuade really; make the bedrock below it a little wider, 1 block might do wonders? 2 on mountain? and on mountain, put some air next to it (above bedrock), so can't dig in from side
OK? make bedrock roo4 above mountain just a little higher?  just like 2 blocks?  maybe also elevate the loot box those 2 blocks? (700,350 on seed615)
OK? remove trees at spawn before glowpillar? check the 200 thresh with SL<13 or so? check glow pillars look good
OK test new dung rate - at 50, seems a little high maybe, but better high than low I think
OK Q: what happens if drink milk while wearing jump boots? A: you no longer have JB, but it returns if you take off and put back on, which is fine
OK do I need to put repair cost on jump boots to ensure people don't add prot4? yes, must fix

verify mineshaft beacon path looks ok
OK thunderstorm rather than night outside the ring? https://www.reddit.com/r/VanillaSwirlCTM/comments/4btdb9/map_request_thread/d1xpa0x
OK witch poison lasts a long time; can I entitydata the ThrownPotions in the air to make them more reasonable?
OK surround outside border with void for 32 chunks (smaller download, no lag at large render dist)
do any of the new commands lag anything? test multiplayer on server
OK extinguish lava in green on hard
OK more hell biomes on hard? (random ghasts are fun)
OK prot4->3 on hard
more spider jockeys red on hard
OK flame2 does not exist (removed, also lessened dungeon bow/util loot a little)
made DS avail as random loot enchant book


BUGS I can maybe live with

frost walker boots on underground mobs (4N saw in green dungeon)
mossy vanilla spawners inside high mountain (above Y = whatever) are not doubled (but loot chests have replaced loot) (and stone is not feesh, which is kinda good)
even when dungeon reachable, may be in shallow cave, unmarked because pillar says cave is not big enough to warrant pillar
glowstone pillar algorithm improved, but dungeons-near-them metric is still poor, improve?  ravines and many directions are tough, need a metric where an unbranching narrow cave costs less (have an idea for one)
can find more glowstone pillars now, decide if want to trim them to help find dungeons - ideally need better way to combine & summary pillar/dungeon metrics into a recommendation
noticed variability in flats: 1 to 11 spider jockeys (usually 4-6), again independent events cause too much variance
 - fixed the SpawnerData.NextSpawnerAt() to bias the rng for more balanced mob types in right proportions, but the number of spawners is harder to bias in dungeons since the percentages vary based on location...
flats: TODO consider some simple maximal square algorithm rather than using findBestPeaks and connected components; right now it only finds a R=20 flat center rather than R=40 flat whole
deal with "// TODO these probabilities can cause wild swings in variance"
still some cave-skeleton bugs (screenshots from jan 20)

OK inner aesthetic3 chests maybe have more blocks?
OK add chest of dye colors
OK add mob heads as random loot (stack 64, creep, zom, skel, drag)
OK soulsand (over ice?) as challenging terrain/substiution somewhere? v podzol in mega taiga? ...  in red?
OK? no SWAMP in daylight

OK add leaf blocks as items (decoration & utility)
teleporters always randomize villagers same way since re-seed each section

TODO: bugs & good ideas

something like a prot3 mending gold chestplate with high repaircost is an interesting item (or even unbr3, mend, leather?)

test balance of no-meat&thunderstorm maps
Note: TJ, like LNG, also made relatively quick work of red, water bucket to get rid of some webs, broke a few spawners, and blitzed in/out
any easy way to get folks to open starter chest before bonus monument chest?
post to /r/proceduralgeneration, forum?
obe loves 'utility' custom items (e.g. digging feesh, glass harvester, eff X pick, ...), also unbreakable/spammable stuff (unbreakable leather/gold armor could be useful early and not OP)? 'attribute loot', armor with health boost, knockback resist, etc... consider those... also saw "sharpness -4, smite 7" which "can only harm undead"
snow layers could be an interesting aesthetic or terrain feature?
consider mining fatigue 1 outside spawn as a debuff on hard?
possibly easy red/mtn is too easy? maybe 60/70% spawners on those? start is hardest based on cyrilbt
RC3 favorites: frost trap, rocket launcher (bow explode arrow), bow whose arrows leave particles that slow/damage mobs
encase bedrock rooves in 'cloud' veneer for looks? (but then also change text referring to bedrock roof)
renderxr advice: keep equip low, can have multiple open-world challenging areas where equally-poorly-equipped player will be challenged, trickle rewards more
fewer spawners harder mobs is one thing; fewer spawners, and some set piece or one-time (when first enter area commands) mobs are another alternative

amplified/elytra: https://www.reddit.com/r/VanillaSwirlCTM/comments/4btdb9/map_request_thread/d3fjq3q

possible next step: turn off caves/ravines/dungeons (maybe tweak other terrain settings) and then make my own (could be wider caves, bigger structures underground, etc)
my own caves:
 - random headings, lengths, diameters for segments
 - starts, boundaries, fail & retry to gen
 - can track walls (hollowed air next to remain wall) for various things
 - can add branch side paths (checking against walls after initial sphere-off-branch can ensure no self-collision creating loops)
 - can add features (decorate walls, hidden passages, traps in ceiling, water flows, vine/moss, ...)
 - can easily ensure one cave not intersect another (keep hashset of points hollowed, ensure zero intersect with other caves)
advantages: I know skeleton perfectly, can make dead ends and tree branching as desired; can avoid caves/ravines on surface where unwanted; no analysis of MC caves needed

MOBS/COMBAT/PROCS
ideas for 'harder' mobs: armored, thorns, carrying sharp weapons, wither skellies, flame bow skellies (or jockeys), having regen/strength, knockback resistance, increased follow distance, (do fire spiders inflict onFire?)... wither skellies with bows (shoot fire arrows: /summon Skeleton ~ ~ ~ {SkeletonType:1b,HandItems:[{id:"minecraft:bow"}]})
 - mobs that spawn at diff light levels/conditions (e.g. riding invisible silversifh with 0.5 health and withered)
(the obeslisks in Eventide were effectively 'set pieces', can I think of others? wide area spawners did wonders for them; witch area (light) or guardian area (no water) may be good too?)
what about a mob that can place blocks? like leaves a trail of obsidian as it walks, maybe blocking you in? or something?
throwable light source (a la arcane bomb, splash pot -> tnt -> fire) is cool; arrows with pot effects for limited ammo special ranged something; limited ranged AoE is cool
'charms' that if you have in your inventory (or in a certain slot of inventory) give you some bonus/buff/mechanic
enemies invisible except if you hold a certain item which makes them visible (glowing?) a short time is a maybe-interesting mechanic (can be transparent, but only non-hostile on same team seeFriendlyInvisibles)
natural spawn mechanics twiddling, e.g. all witches get replaces by 3 zombies, or some such; filling incaves below ground to spawn-cap surface area, ...
making all enemies glowing for a short time may be useful mechanic
(wither skellies with bows shoot flame arrows (but I guess are not 'vanilla' mobs that way))
fun mechanic I saw, 'slime staff', a stick that when held, causes slimes to explode (replace primed tnt), so you could use spawn eggs to place and then explode at range
cool proc: walking on path blocks grants a speed buff
a really useful proc would be temp throwable light, e.g. arrow that lights fire where it lands, or puts temp light there somehow, hm... need an air block to replace of course... ghast fireball with limited explosion?
can have in-ground arrows or in-flight arrows have area effects (brief fire?)
can give effects when in water (execute detect) or lava
can have forest -> ice forest, with leaves as packed ice, and have snow golem spawners (which will interact naturally with creepers on occasion)
obe things underground dungeons had too many mobs; fewer but harder might be good (blaze?) ... unsure how I feel (obe wanted more silverfish in final dungeon!)
consider all RC3 procs
slowness arrows?





below this line can probably do without for beta
------------------------------------------------
(can rename/tag bits of food if want to not be stackable, e.g. treat steak like regen pot almost)
bat spawner in sky, has mob as passenger, bat has wither effect, dies and randomly rains down mobs?
weapon with very long cooldown but very strong (e.g. one hit at start of battle?)
some other block substitutions to make things interesting? cobble stairs/double-slabs to feign stone in caves?
 - glowstone 'ore veins' are fun to find (instead of lava? creepers can wreck? ...) idea: CC the lava/flowing_lava, convert all connected to level 10 to glowstone, if y>10, 50% air, if y <=10 obsidian?
 - biome change-up (to change grass colors)? to what purpose? (prefer to have a mechanic)
 - guardian swamp? (would it have treasure? utility item?)
 - some snow biome changeup with snowmen/creeper spawners on surface (some utility item?)
 - forest or ice spikes are good places to 'hide spawners' (trees, spikes) in an area, but how/what to put in middle to find?
 - mushroom biome with no mobs and rainbow color stuff? (lit with glowstone etc?) brown wool troll chest, in a fleecy box? too OP for underground loot? ok if near far egde of map, after caving not useful.
 - colored banners to decore an area and make it feel like it has a theme, or to mark a location, or something...
diorite pillars at day/night go down into some caves, was kind a cool effect, other ways to use? circle around some box/chest for another mini set piece?
seemd like there may still be some skylight bugs, do more checks versus MC
***look of dungeons customized, e.g. moss -> netherrack in hell biome, more spawners per dungeon has better loot
spawners inside tree leaves are nice simple 'traps', maybe by the tree chests? (how look on fast graphics if inside? or maybe just top center block of '+' e.g.)
consider language/translation stuff? german/ellpeck? (don't spend too much effort unless clear could be a big payoff)
awesome trap idea for underground cave (green/purple), spawners at/in lava layer can be almost ignored, what if trap dispenses a water bucket? or just have ice in ceiling or water sources behind spawners, etc
***witch zones / guardian zones (could be small zone, but when you stand at loot chest, they spawn?)
***'themed' mobs, e.g. lots of undead, so smite/IH works, etc, make 'gear options' valuable
spawner underneath dead-end chest?
***hyper-spawner (dispenser with eggs)
***places where gravel floor falls
  - desert trap, can rig sand to fall like 10 blocks to obsidian line hole with a low-range spawner underneath, or have TNT, etc, can find flat areas, preserve cacti, etc.
  - key is getting player to set off trap, need a hook: gold block, chest, etc. and a few of them so not every one is a trap
***skeleton trap, electrified creeper
***primed tnt buried in walls
trap where enderman grabs sand/whatever and update lava somehow (floating lava?)
an area made out of chests/furnaces/etc where you want to use your bow is a nice 'trap' as right-clicking opens the chest
trap where lava encased in wood/leaves etc with no air space to start fire, once player breaks blocks, fire may ignite (tnt?)
anvils sitting on decaying leaf blocks in the sky?
legendary: seeing x from afar leads to seeing y up close... (telporter path, ...)
glowstone behind stairs in wall (like Eventide Trance) highlights part of cave/dungeon without giving light
TODOs and refactorings...
undergound: 'giant crystal cave', e.g. you go down a cave and find a huge open space with ice and glass and whatnot. (how to generate 'look', how to place so there's a path, how to get player to find)
special named chickens that lay emeralds or something: https://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/46vf81/diamondlaying_chickens/
surface (or underground) structures are fun to find, even if just small rare not-too-useful item, nice to 'see new stuff' that looks interesting (but requires 'builds')

other ideas
floating structures? lava/water pillars fall down? sky has 'advantage' of being open to build without overlap... eventide trance parkour up the creeper platforms stuff
 - also oceans/tiny islands, can build without overlap, just need ways to draw players out there to find them
tnt exploding a morse code explosion-sound something?!?
infinite loot chest puzzle (need a certain tree/path through 27 chests in each to win, or something)
hollow out mountain, for top-down, multi-tier, encased in bedrock dungeon? ghast spawner atop mtn when broken could lead to ladder down to hollowed mountain dungeon
desert falling sand could also open hole into giant underground cavern of some sort?
more variants of set pieces (persistence-required mobs placed in map)
  - land guardians may make a good set piece (protection books?)
  - something to protect a good bow? close to spawn? kinda hard to get good bow early
rand cave wall spawners guarding iron/gold blocks?

idea: foresight potion, shows what rare things mobs will drop
  - zombie/skeleton/pigzombie wear item as head armor slot
  - other mobs have a visible customname (or maybe have invisible armor stand riding them that has head-armor item? have not tried)
to implement it, would have to use commands:
  - select an unprocessed-tag mob, mark to-process
  - deceide whether it gets a rare drop at all (most don't)
  - if so, select a 'kind' (item sans enchants) of rare drop from its table (long list of commands, PRNG to activate one)
  - entitydata/replaceitem the mob to display it; entitydata its DeathLootTable to drop it (loot table could still e.g. apply random enchants)
  - (requires factoring loot tables differently, so 'common' loot is in a separate table, so 'rare' could still reference 'common'; alternatively, could just be 'extra' loot atop normal drops)

idea: five lives: each time you die, your default max hearts decreases 2 (discourage suicide in UHC mode)
/summon ThrownPotion ~ ~2 ~ {Potion:{id:"splash_potion",Count:1b,tag:{CustomPotionEffects:[{Id:21b,Amplifier:-2b,Duration:1000}]}}}
-2 -3 -4 -5 valid amplifiers for 8 6 4 2 hearts
but the drinkable health pot would override completely... might be nice to 'buy back' hearts at a time, dunno, kinda tedious...
overall, not too compelling; those who would avoid suicide don't need the extra challenge, they'll challenge selves; just creating busy work for those who would suicide



SEEDS

ice spikes seed: 1440595613939009001  or   442832462593546
variety: 35267400 or 604443340930998
mesa: 2347792175013291886 (poor caves nearspawn, poor green beacons)
   -3200857569343076362 (looks cool, adjust alg. a bit to deal with caves/flats decently)
   3316589309694287545
   8225324188694294234
   -2473410148646685791
diverse:  8609991750909377810
	-4926332849099228886
ocean diverse:
	-2770714252244906609
desert spawn:
	1986368131567302513
	3801814466817130531
	8157502875499041714
	-2629270176277309667  // TJ?
	5292001791281798257
south warm, north cold:  -3784735310312308920

BIG IDEAS

upside down world below ground? https://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/4ivtxi/old_mod_idea_hollow_earth_mod_image/
 - or e.g. nether below ground... can 'reuse' MC terrain gen at a different 'Y' of the world maybe to add content without needing a whole terrain gen maybe
something where if you look up at the sky, like fireworks-words appear or something? chest says look up, you do, particles spell something? all mobs look up? ...
(possibly some spellbook that lets you pull up all the 'quest text' to refer back to in chat or something, so don't need to carry/forget books?)
bats with a trail of fire particles look cool :)
something with pushable blocks or moving platforms using shulkers?
good troll: button says 'build a bridge' where there's a big gap you need to get across, and it makes a bridge... of blaze spawners :)
glowing underground mob? (invul magma?) spell something out, or have arrow, or be above chest, or what? (can't due to https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-97094)
secrets hidden behind out-of-place-blocks (e.g. chiseled stone, 3x3gravel, etc in walls of caves)
what if each of the 16 colors had a one-word name, and the 16 words spelled out a sentence? or?
any kind of 'progress meter' in cave dungeons?   
what if in purple dungeon, first 5 spawners are zombie, next 5 are skeleton, creeper, cave spider, wither skel, witch, and then mix after that?
"Something like cave systems that shift and change flavor as you delve deeper could be really fun in the future - walls changing over from andesite to diorite to granite might be a way of signalling that something new is happening to the player"
more underground flora (ferns, flowers, etc) are usually fun... underground grass? ...
ender crystals?
one-way-home teleport mechanic? something time consuming you can't use in battle? kill iron golem or something? hm... or maybe one-way TPs home at major dungeon chests?
obe would like to 'continue with normal survival' after done
have a way to 'go to normal', e.g. turn off world border, (world embedded in normal terrain generator, ores, dungeons, with structures on, 
   small biomes, same seed, seamless?), turn off night stuff, how fix nether? ...
   what about drops after game is over? conditionally change all mob drops back to normal based on scoreboard? or? (like nether, have people delete files?)
maps with stuff written on them (text, pictures, clues, ...)
rather than paintings, custom maps/design/info on walls, maybe with traps or secrets behind them
(secret rooms behind walls that look solid (e.g. array of armor stand with hardened clay on head looks like wall))
end dimension with other biomes allows other things to spawn (useful for lighting? no beds, bedrock fire, has water, lava speed?, what other mechanics in end dimension?)
when I do start adding any 'structures', they should all have randomness too (e.g. saw a cool big 'candle' whose fire was floating lava blocks, that could be neat to proc generate; more 'organic' stuff)
interesting idea is the 'alternate world'/'dream plane'/etc, where you get TPd to different region of map that's "same but different" a la Zelda:LttP and a couple CTMs
terrain generator with more caves, fewer ravines, diff ore, much higher sea level and deeper underground, my own biomes?
jahg on vlog: Hello.  Talking of commissioning a custom version of this custom map... I would love a sort of skylands version, floaty islands over void.  Get working on that custom terrain!  Go, go, go!  :D﻿
